arb os upgrade for orbit chains (#919)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/launch-orbit-chain/how-tos/arbos-upgrade.md

---
title: 'How to upgrade ArbOS on your Orbit chain'

> sidebar_label: 'ArbOS upgrade'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: 'Upgrade ArbOS'
```
nit

The `WASM module root` is a 32-byte hash, created from the Merkelized Go replay binary and its dependencies. When ArbOS is upgraded, a new Wasm module root is generated due to modifications in the State Transition Function. This new Wasm module root must be set in the rollup contract on the parent chain. To set the new Wasm module root, use the `Rollup proxy` contract's [setWasmModuleRoot](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/38a70a5e14f8b52478eb5db08e7551a82ced14fe/src/rollup/RollupAdminLogic.sol#L321) method.

Note that the `upgrade executor` contract on the parent chain is the designated owner of the rollup contract, so the **chain owner account** needs to initiate a call to the `upgrade executor` contract in order to perform the upgrade. This call should include the correct calldata for setting the new Wasm module root. For example, the Wasm module root for ArbOS 11 is `0xf4389b835497a910d7ba3ebfb77aa93da985634f3c052de1290360635be40c4a`. 
:::tip Backward compatibility
Wasm module roots are backward compatible, so upgrading them before an ArbOS version upgrade will not disrupt your chain's functionality.
:::

#### Step 3: Schedule the ArbOS version upgrade

> To schedule an ArbOS version upgrade, call the `[scheduleArbOSUpgrade](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/acb0ef919cce9f41da531f8dab1b0b31d9860dcb/src/precompiles/ArbOwner.sol#L61)` function on the `ArbOwner` precompile of the Orbit chain(s) you're upgrading. This function requires two inputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To schedule an ArbOS version upgrade, call the [`scheduleArbOSUpgrade`](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/acb0ef919cce9f41da531f8dab1b0b31d9860dcb/src/precompiles/ArbOwner.sol#L61) function on the `ArbOwner` precompile of the Orbit chain(s) you're upgrading. This function requires two inputs:
```

Formatting fix

---
title: 'ArbOS upgrade on orbit chains'
sidebar_label: 'ArbOS upgrade'
description: 'Overview of steps to upgrade arb os on an orbit chain.'
author: Mehdi Salehi
sme: Mehdi Salehi
target_audience: 'Developers maintaining Orbit chains.'
sidebar_position: 3
---

In this how-to, you'll discover how to upgrade ArbOS on your Orbit chain. This walkthrough assumes you have a basic understanding of ArbOS, Orbit chains, and smart contract operations. This step-by-step guide is designed to navigate you through the process, from the initial wasm module root upgrade to the final node update, ensuring a successful upgrade of the new ArbOS version.

> ### ArbOS

Author: Completely makes sense to me

### ArbOS upgrade
Similar to other software, ArbOS may undergo periodic upgrades to introduce new features or modify existing ones. In the event of an upgrade, owners of Orbit chains have the discretion to either update their chain and ArbOS version to the latest, benefiting from new features, or maintain their current setup.

The process of upgrading ArbOS on an Orbit chain involves specific steps, which are outlined in the following section.

Before delving into the steps for upgrading, it's important to understand the concept of chain ownership and the methods through which a chain owner can upgrade their chain. These topics are comprehensively covered in the [Chain Ownership](../concepts/chain-ownership.md) section of the documentation.

To upgrade ArbOS on an Orbit chain, follow these steps:

#### Step 1: Update Nodes and Validators

To ensure compatibility with the new ArbOS version, the Orbit chain's nodes need an upgrade. 

> **Validators** should be the first to receive this update. It's crucial to upgrade the software on validator nodes to the latest Nitro version supporting the new ArbOS before proceeding to set a new Wasm Module Root (step 2). Chain owners should prioritize this to ensure their validators are equipped with the necessary updates.

Author: Actually the target audinece for this doc wouldn't be users Mick. The target audience is RaaS providers so we don't need to specify all details about the steps. I know your concern about giving as more detail as possible but for this doc I think it's enough just to say upgrade your nodes.

> All remaining orbit nodes must be upgraded prior to activating the new ArbOS version, specifically before the **deadline** established for the ArbOS update (timestamp set in the ArbOS update schedule). 

Author: Schedule upgrades is explained in detail on next sections. Also orbit chain node's would be a better term for it I think than Nitro. For instance on node runner section we use "how to run orbit chain node". This is the same node as we used there

> For example, if your upgrade targets ArbOS 11, you should look for node version `v2.2.2`. The Docker image to use for this version is `offchainlabs/nitro-node:v2.2.2-8f33fea`. Completing this step guarantees that your nodes are prepared and will function smoothly with the ArbOS update.

Author: I just added this for now for people that wanna upgrade ArbOS 11 to be sure they know which node version they need to use Mick. I'll delete it after a few weeks so it's good for now

#### Step 2: Wasm Module Root Upgrade

> The `WASM module root` is a 32-byte hash, created from the Merkelized Go replay binary and its dependencies. When ArbOS is upgraded, a new Wasm module root is generated due to modifications in the State Transition Function. This new wasm module root must be set in the rollup contract on the parent chain. To implement the upgrade, you should utilize the [setWasmModuleRoot](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/38a70a5e14f8b52478eb5db08e7551a82ced14fe/src/rollup/RollupAdminLogic.sol#L321) method by calling the `Rollup proxy` contract. As the `upgrade executor` contract on the parent chain is the designated owner of the rollup contract, it is necessary for the **chain owner account** to initiate a call to the upgrade executor. This call should include the correct calldata for setting the new wasm module root through the setWasmModuleRoot function within the rollup contract. For example, the wasm module root for ArbOS 11 is `0xf4389b835497a910d7ba3ebfb77aa93da985634f3c052de1290360635be40c4a`. 

Author: I refer them to the chain ownership page already. They can find some info here. Also I talked with @hkalodner about it. I think it's better to go with this version for now and we will add more info after Orbit SDK support. For now we can't give more explanation on it that helps generally and also I think for people who we want to share this with, the explanation would be enough for now. But completely agree that we need to add more info after Orbit SDK support

**Note** that wasm module roots are backward compatible, meaning upgrading it prior to an ArbOS version upgrade won't disrupt the system.

#### Step 3: Schedule ArbOS version Upgrade

> To update the ArbOS version, you must schedule an upgrade on the Orbit chain. This is done by calling the [scheduleArbOSUpgrade](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/acb0ef919cce9f41da531f8dab1b0b31d9860dcb/src/precompiles/ArbOwner.sol#L61) function on the ArbOwner precompile of the Orbit chain. This function requires two inputs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To schedule an ArbOS version upgrade, call the `[scheduleArbOSUpgrade](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/nitro-contracts/blob/acb0ef919cce9f41da531f8dab1b0b31d9860dcb/src/precompiles/ArbOwner.sol#L61)` function on the `ArbOwner` precompile of the Orbit chain(s) you're upgrading. This function requires two inputs:
```

> 1. **newVersion**: Specify the ArbOS version you wish to upgrade to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **`newVersion`**: Specify the ArbOS version you wish to upgrade to.
```

Can we provide an example of this call, so the reader can be confident about the format of the input params?

Author: We discussed it with @hkalodner. Because we can't give a general example for this, for this version of doc we would not add an example. We're working on Orbit SDK support and after it's merged we can explain how to use it to generate the calldata

> 2. **timestamp**: Set the exact timestamp at which you want your Orbit chain to transition to the new ArbOS version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **`timestamp`**: Set the exact timestamp at which you want your Orbit chain to transition to the new ArbOS version.
```

What format is this timestamp? Is it UTC? Does it matter?

> As with the parent chain, performing **admin actions** on the orbit chain necessitates using the `upgrade executor` contract on the orbit chain. The **chain owner account** must execute a call to the upgrade executor with the appropriate calldata, to invoke the `scheduleArbOSUpgrade` function of the ArbOwner precompile, thereby setting the new ArbOS version and the desired timestamp for the upgrade. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this is an administrative action (similar to upgrading your Wasm module root), the **chain owner account** must call the target chain's `upgrade executor` contract with the appropriate calldata in order to invoke the `scheduleArbOSUpgrade` function of the ArbOwner precompile. This will schedule the ArbOS upgrade using the specified version and timestamp. 
```

> **Note** that setting timestamp to `0` causes the upgrade to activate immediately.

Reviewer: :::tip Immediate upgrades
To upgrade immediately (without scheduling), set the `timestamp` to `0`.
:::

Do we need to specify whether this is a string or int?

> **Note** that setting timestamp to `0` causes the upgrade to activate immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip Immediate upgrades
To upgrade immediately (without scheduling), set the timestamp to 0.
:::
```

Do we need to specify whether this is a string or int?

Author: I don't think so because we said that it's a unix timestamp above

> By following these three steps, your chain will be successfully upgraded and start using the new ArbOS version after reaching the `timestamp` you specified in step 2. This process ensures a seamless transition to the latest functionalities and improvements of ArbOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You've upgraded your Orbit chain(s) to the specified ArbOS version.
```

One possible way to improve this is to set expectations in the "success" case - something along the lines of "You should see <insert console log or some way to verify that the upgrade has been scheduled successfully>". This way, readers know what to look for if they're not confident that their contract calls were successfully executed.

Not needed, just something to consider as a general pattern (I'm not even sure if this is possible or idiomatic with these contract calls)

Author: That's a great suggestion for these type of docs but as you mentioned, for this specific doc, we don't have a success sign, cause it's a complete network upgrade. We can think about it when adding orbit sdk support.
Thanks!
